Signalling fault causes 30-minute train delay between Yew Tee and Yishun MRT stations



Posted on 02 June 2017 06:52 pm | 3,549 views | 15 comments
Submitted by Stomper  Cyy, Choy,  Paul, Ray,  Danny, Ketheesan, John, Veera,  Lai


Click here to submit a story or submit it to our WhatsApp.

Stompers Cyy, Choy, Paul, Ray, Danny, Ketheesan, John, Veera and Lai were affected by a train delay on the North-South line this evening (Jun 2).

Photos the Stompers sent show a sea of people at various MRT stations and crowds waiting for shuttle buses.

A Tweet posted by the SMRT on Twitter at around 5.50pm said that commuters should add 30 minutes to their travelling time due to a signalling fault.

Read the Tweet:

"Due to signalling fault, please add 30mins travel time between #YewTee and #Yishun both bounds. Trains are travelling at slower speed."

In a subsequent Tweet posted at around 6.10pm, the SMRT said that free regular bus and free bridging bus services are available between Choa Chu Kang and Yishun.

7 minutes later at 6.17pm, commuters were advised to take trains on other lines or alternative forms of transport due to the fault.

Stompers also encountered crowds at multiple stations due to the MRT stations reportedly closing off a number of gantries to limit passengers getting on the affected North-South Line.

Said Ray who was at Raffles Place MRT Station at 6.20pm:

"The queue for the remaining gantries were so long, it took around 10 minutes for me to enter.

"Even after alighting at Jurong East Station at around 7.16pm, I could see staff preventing passengers from climbing to the stairs to the trains at the North-South Line platform."

Ketheesan who was at Choa Chu Kang MRT Station at 6.35pm told Stomp that he only reached Kranji Station at around 7.30pm.

Said the frustrated commuter:

"I need to Sembawang, but in the end I got off at Kranji just to take a bus there instead.

"The staff at Kranji Station opened the sliding door so passengers could leave, so it isn't that packed anymore.

"Earlier, my friend sent me a photo of Sembawang MRT Station.

"It was so crowded there too."

