Hybrid cooling fans, underground bike parking areas among new features at TEL Stage 4 stations

UPDATED MAY 03, 2024, 11:40 PM
FacebookTelegram
SINGAPORE – New hybrid cooling fans have been installed at all MRT stations along Stage 4 of the Thomson-East Coast Line (TEL) to keep temperatures on the train platforms at a comfortable level for passengers while reducing energy usage.

A first in Singapore’s rail network, these hybrid cooling fans – located on the platforms of the seven TEL Stage 4 stations from Tanjong Rhu to Bayshore – will be used together with air-conditioning to improve air circulation and reduce the need to lower air-con temperatures, said the Land Transport Authority (LTA) at a media preview on May 2.

In another first, underground bicycle parking areas have been built at three stations along the line – Marine Terrace, Marine Parade, and Bayshore – so cyclists can store their bicycles away from the elements.

Passenger service for TEL Stage 4 will start on June 23.

Most train platforms at the stations have two standing fans each, though Katong Park station has overhead fans.

Asked how many hybrid cooling fans have been deployed across TEL Stage 4, an LTA spokesperson said more details will be shared later.

These hybrid cooling fans will also be rolled out on the fifth and final stretch of TEL comprising Bedok South and Sungei Bedok stations, as well as Circle Line (CCL) Stage 6 – which closes the loop for CCL with the addition of Keppel, Cantonment, and Prince Edward Road stations.


Both TEL Stage 5 and CCL Stage 6 are slated to be completed by 2026.

Similar hybrid cooling systems will be installed on the Cross Island Line-Punggol Extension – comprising Punggol, Riviera, Elias, and Pasir Ris stations – which will be ready by 2032.

Separately, the underground bike parking areas will have 770 parking spaces in total, with 202 spaces at Marine Terrace station, 364 spaces at Marine Parade station, and 204 spaces at Bayshore station.

These three stations are located near East Coast Park. The LTA said the underground bike parking areas will help enhance last-mile connectivity for many cyclists.

Two bike lifts that can each fit four to five bikes and their owners are available at Marine Terrace and Bayshore stations to transport cyclists down from street level to the underground parking area.

Additionally, there are bike staircases that come fitted with a ramp and gentler slopes for cyclists to push their bikes up and down to the parking area.


The underground parking area at Bayshore station, which can accommodate 204 bikes. ST PHOTO: KUA CHEE SIONG

Bike staircases come fitted with a ramp and gentler slopes for cyclists to push their bikes up and down to the parking area. ST PHOTO: KUA CHEE SIONG
The LTA had announced in 2014 that underground bicycle parking areas would be built at four stations on the TEL – the three Stage 4 stations and Sungei Bedok.

Mr Greg Choong, 57, who lives in the west and cycles in the East Coast Park at least twice a month, said the underground bicycle parking areas are a welcome addition that will improve the commuting experience for cyclists.

Having tried out a similar indoor bicycle parking facility in Buona Vista recently, the retired businessman said such parking areas are a “luxury” as they provide cyclists with a safe and convenient spot to park their bike.

But he said transporting one’s bicycle up and down via a staircase or lift is “cumbersome” as a cyclist would need to disembark to push the bike.

He would have preferred a wide ramp that allows cyclists to ride into or out of the station.

Passengers can use the seven TEL Stage 4 stations for free from 10am to 9pm on June 21 as part of a preview.

With the opening of TEL Stage 4 on June 23, about 235,000 households will be within a 10-minute walk of a TEL station, said LTA.