Lightning strike causes power trip that disrupted train services on section of North-South Line
Train services between Choa Chu Kang and Woodlands MRT stations on the North-South Line were disrupted for more than two hours on Monday (Jun 3).

03 Jun 2024 07:41PM
(Updated: 03 Jun 2024 11:00PM)


SINGAPORE: Train services along a section of the North-South Line were disrupted for more than two hours on Monday (Jun 3) after a lightning strike caused a power trip.

There was no train service between Choa Chu Kang and Woodlands MRT stations, disrupting the evening peak-hour commute.

ADVERTISEMENT

"There was a lightning strike that caused traction power to trip," transport operator SMRT said in a Facebook post. 

"Preliminary investigations found a small fire involving a power control box located about 20 metres from the Kranji station platform. There were no reported injuries, and the cause of the fire is under investigation."

SMRT said earlier that a power traction fault occurred at about 5.50pm, disrupting services between Yew Tee and Woodlands in both directions.

It said in a subsequent update that Choa Chu Kang MRT station was affected as well. 

ADVERTISEMENT

Free regular bus and bridging bus services were operating between Choa Chu Kang and Woodlands in both directions.

SMRT also advised passengers to take alternative travel routes on the Thomson-East Coast Line and Circle Line.

"Announcements are being made in trains and stations to keep commuters informed about the situation. Our engineers and staff are working diligently to resolve the issue," added the transport operator.

At about 7.55pm, SMRT said that trains from Woodlands towards Choa Chu Kang were back in service.

In an update at 8.10pm, it added that the train service from Choa Chu Kang to Woodlands had also resumed.


Train services on the North-South Line were disrupted on Jun 3, 2024. (Photo: A Kannan)

Train services on the North-South Line were disrupted on Jun 3, 2024. (Photo: Emily Yee)
If you would like to send in information, photos or videos about something newsworthy, submit your news tips on CNA Eyewitness or on WhatsApp.

Source: CNA/nh(rj)