LTA and rail operators working to improve crowd control measures, public announcements during MRT disruptions

https://www.channelnewsasia.com/singapore/mrt-disruption-crowd-control-public-announcements-measures-nsl-lightning-chee-hong-tat-lta-4453826


This comes after train services were affected on a section of the North-South Line for more than two hours during the evening peak period on Jun 3.

03 Jul 2024 01:00PM
(Updated: 03 Jul 2024 02:14PM)


SINGAPORE: The Land Transport Authority (LTA) is working with rail operators to strengthen their incident management plans for service disruptions, said Minister for Transport Chee Hong Tat on Tuesday (Jul 2). 

This includes improving the clarity of public announcements as well as crowd control measures for affected MRT stations and at boarding points for bridging buses, said Mr Chee in a written answer to parliamentary questions by MP Lim Biow Chuan (PAP-Mountbatten) and MP Alex Yam Ziming (PAP-Marsiling-Yew Tee). 

The MPs had asked about the results of investigations into a train service disruption on Jun 3 and whether the Transport Ministry reviews communication and crowd control measures adopted by public transport operators during MRT breakdowns. 

The disruption last month, which occurred when a lightning strike caused a power trip, affected a section of the North-South Line for more than two hours during the evening peak hour commute.

Photos and videos on social media showed large crowds stranded at affected stations, queuing for buses or trying to hail taxis.


With MRT services between Choa Chu Kang and Woodlands stations stalled, free regular bus and bridging bus services were operated between them in both directions.

However, some commuters complained that not enough buses were deployed. 

After the incident, LTA said SMRT had responded to the disruption in accordance with the standard operating procedures. But it acknowledged that the incident’s impact was more serious than the major MRT service disruptions in the past two years.

“LTA has taken note of the feedback arising from the disruption, and are working with the rail operators to strengthen their incident management plans,” said Mr Chee. 

The transport authority mandates that rail operators have in place "robust response plans" in the case of service disruptions and these plans are exercised annually by LTA, rail operators and other relevant agencies, he said. 

“Learning points from incidents and exercises help LTA and our operators to make continual improvements to their incident response plans.”


Engineers replacing a damaged power control box near Kranji MRT station. (Photo: Facebook/SMRT)
Investigations into the disruption are still ongoing, said Mr Chee. Preliminary investigations found that a surge arrester failed to work when lightning struck on Jun 3, causing a loss of traction power that disrupted train services. 


Surge arresters are meant to protect outdoor equipment against transient power surges, such as from lightning strikes.

“It is possible that past lightning strikes had accelerated the deterioration of this particular surge arrester, as this section of track between Kranji and Marsiling is lightning prone,” said Mr Chee. 

The operator had adhered to the maintenance regime recommended by the manufacturer of the surge arrester.

The surge arrester has been replaced and “we are working with the manufacturer and the rail operators to review the maintenance frequency of surge arresters”, Mr Chee said. 

