Multisectoral solution needed for MRT woes


Published December 3, 2015
Updated December 3, 2015

Singapore is too small for the private, public and non-profit sectors not to work closer together, especially in difficult times.

A case in point is the recent MRT breakdowns, which stall the economy, displace and distress a segment of the population and throw up potential public-safety risks (“Power fault causes rush-hour disruption on NS, Circle lines”; Nov 26).

Hence, they should be recognised and addressed, at least partially, as public crises. I was caught in two breakdowns this year. Both times, despite my best efforts, I was stuck for hours.

During one of these breakdowns, I walked along Orchard Road and observed that the elderly, the disabled, pregnant women and people with young children and prams were the least able to get to bus shelters, let alone near a bus.

People were spilling onto the road. Travellers trying to get to the airport paced about crowded taxi stands, looking frantic. Many stood about helplessly, unsure if their ordeal would last 30 minutes or hours.

In such situations, is there not a case to use other public vehicles to send pregnant women and the most vulnerable members of the public to their destinations first?

Is it not possible also to despatch buses to pick up travellers heading to the airport?

Perhaps, it is time to create a national database of private and public buses and vans that could be mobilised in times of crises.

Crowd-control personnel were in some places, but what about other safety measures such as tents to protect people from the heat or tropical storms? What about Portaloos and first aid for people who faint?

When many members of the public are affected, there is a case for government agencies to step in, with the train operator rightly billed for the use of these public services.

While there is never a simple solution to a complex problem, little steps can be taken in the right direction.

For instance, if volunteers could hand out destination signs that say “Tanjong Pagar” or “Orchard” to help people in taxi queues carpool, crowds would disperse faster. If commuters were engaged in focus groups, more practical ideas would emerge.

Singapore has thrived by being pragmatic. Helping to solve commuter woes now could also be viewed as preparation for potential large-scale public crises such as terrorist attacks that aim to paralyse the public transport system.

Especially in this holiday season, I urge the public, private and non-profit sectors to join hands and find workable solutions for commuters and for Singapore.