Regular train service resumes after track fault at Jurong East causes delays during morning peak


Posted on 04 July 2024 09:15 am | 2,303 views | 10 comments
Regular train services have resumed after delays caused by a track fault at Jurong East MRT station on the East-West Line on the morning of July 4.

A commuter told Stomp at 8.50am: "Like normal."

But things were less normal earlier at 6.17am when SMRT tweeted for commuters to add 20 minutes travel time from Buona Vista to Clementi stations towards Pasir Ris.


At 7.25am, SMRT posted on Facebook: "On July 4 at around 5am, a track fault occurred at Jurong East MRT station on the East-West Line. As a result, trains are travelling at a slower speed...

"Train services remain available on both bounds, while having to slow down near the faulty point machine, for safety reasons. Commuters are advised to add up to 30 minutes of additional train travel time.



"Our engineers are on site to rectify the fault.

"Free regular bus and bridging bus services are available between Clementi and Boon Lay stations at designated bus stops."

The rail operator also apologised.


 

At 8.10am, SMRT updated that the fault has been cleared.

It later added: "Regular train services progressively resumed from 7:48am, and free regular and bridging bus services have ceased.

"This morning, a track point fault required our staff to physically check, troubleshoot, and remedy the faulty point machine. A point machine controls train movements at rail junctions when trains switch tracks. It is crucial for the point machine to be fully functional for the safe operation of trains...


"For safety reasons, once the fault was detected, trains moved at a slow speed of 5 km/h, resulting in commuters being advised to add 30 minutes to their travel time.

"To rectify the fault, our staff went onto the track to investigate the issue. We also deployed additional staff to assist service ambassadors in managing peak hour crowds at affected stations."



A Facebook user commented: "Something is very wrong. Every time there is a breakdown, it always happens during peak hours. The authorities may want to check."

A month earlier, a power traction fault caused by a lightning strike on June 3 at about 5.50pm resulted in delays on the North-South Line.

It was during evening peak.

