Services along East-West line resume after train faults on July 4 morning


PUBLISHED ON
JULY 04, 2024 9:36 AM
ByKOLETTE LIM





[UPDATE: 8.27AM]

Regular train services have progressively resumed and free regular and bridging bus services have ceased.

SINGAPORE — Services have resumed along the East-West Line (EWL) after a three-hour delay caused by a track fault at Jurong East station on July 4.

The delays were a result of a faulty point machine, said train operator SMRT in a Facebook post at 8.18am. "A point machine controls train movements at rail junctions when trains switch tracks. It is crucial for the point machine to be fully functional for the safe operation of trains," it added.

Due to safety reasons, trains travelled at a speed of 5kmh after the fault was detected, said SMRT. "To rectify the fault, our staff went onto the track to investigate the issue."

Free regular bus and bridging bus services, which were available between Clementi and Boon Lay stations at designated bus stops, have now ceased.

SMRT first announced the track fault, which occurred at the station at around 5am, at 7.25am.

It advised commuters to add up to 30 minutes of travel time. Commuters were also asked to opt for other lines including Thomson-East Coast Line, Downtown Line and North-South Line towards the city.

At 8.10am, SMRT updated that the fault had been cleared and services were progressively returning to normal.

The Straits Times has contacted SMRT for more information.

Alice Low, who works at a clinic in Novena, was slightly late for work due to the train fault.

She boarded the train at Boon Lay station at 6.45am, and when she reached Jurong East station, all passengers were asked to alight.

As the train station was packed, and she figured she would need to wait for a long time before she could board the next available EWL train, so she took the North-South line to get to Novena station instead.

"Luckily I left very early," she said, adding that she would have been very late for work otherwise.

