Train services return to normal without a hitch


Published July 8, 2015
Updated July 8, 2015

SINGAPORE — Hours after the North-South and East-West lines were hit simultaneously by an unprecedented breakdown yesterday (July 7), services resumed this morning — at a reduced speed initially — and the trains ran smoothly throughout the day, as commuters went about their daily routines without any fuss.

Following the breakdown, SMRT had advised commuters to make alternative travelling plans the next day, as the affected lines may experience limited service.

However, following overnight checks, full train service started at 5.30am and the frequency was gradually increased from an average interval of five to seven minutes, to two to three minutes, SMRT said. A planned five-hour suspension of service to conduct further checks was also deemed unnecessary. A Land Transport Authority (LTA) spokesperson said that in total, 119 trains were deployed today — around the usual level for normal daily operations. “We have also observed that there was no power tripping on the system during the evening peak hours and will continue to monitor train operations till the end of train service,” the spokesperson said.

At the Bishan, Orchard, Paya Lebar and Jurong East MRT stations for example, train service ran normally during the day and there was no discernible dip in passenger levels.

Nevertheless, announcements were broadcast occasionally at stations along the East-West line about the possibility of train delays, which did not materialise. In the morning, free bus services were provided near the stations on the North-South and East West lines.

Commuters said they checked the news or social media for updates on the situation before setting off on their journeys. In contrast to the frustrations shown by many commuters last night, those whom TODAY spoke to were in a more forgiving mood over the massive breakdown.

Ms Serene Lim, 35, who was taking the train from Paya Lebar to Raffles Place, said: “I think such faults will tend to happen ... After all, the MRT has been serving us for (many years) and (has made) travelling more convenient.”

Singapore Polytechnic student Eugene Chan, 18, who was on his way to school from Paya Lebar, said: “I did not leave home earlier today as I have faith that the MRT system will not breakdown again (today).”

Still, some commuters reiterated that there were learning points for SMRT from the breakdown, including how it handled the situation.

Ms Sally Yeo, 55, who was at Ang Mo Kio Station today, said the authorities should inform people about the breakdown earlier and on more channels. Many commuters only found out it after they arrived at the stations, she said. ADDITIONAL REPORTING BY JORDON SIMPSON, CONSTANCE YEO AND LYNETTE TAN

