Train services resume at reduced speeds; no power trips observed

Published July 8, 2015
Updated July 8, 2015


SINGAPORE — No power trips were observed this morning (July 8) as train services resumed at 5.30am, the Land Transport Authority (LTA) said in a statement.

SMRT gradually increased the number of trains on the North-South (NSL) and East-West (EWL) lines to improve train frequency, the LTA said.

As of 10.35am, train services will not be suspended on the NSL from 11am to 4pm, with free bus services ending at 12 noon today, SMRT tweeted. 

In an earlier statement, LTA said that services on the NSL will be suspended for a few hours from 11am to allow LTA and SMRT engineers to conduct further investigations into yesterday’s power trip.

Free bus services will be continue to be available from designated bus stops and bus interchanges close to NSEWL stations, with up to 100 buses deployed to ply the affected routes along train routes, LTA said.

READ ALSO
Root cause of rail breakdown not found; PM Lee ‘very concerned’
Additionally, the North-East Line and Circle Line will extend their morning peak period by two hours, with trains running at two and three-minute intervals during this period.

With the rail network not operating at full capacity, LTA encouraged commuters to adjust their travel plans or use  alternative services provided by the bus network and rail lines in operation.   

Transport Minister Lui Tuck Yew was present at Ang Mo Kio MRT station this morning to observe the resuming train services. He said the investigation into last night's MRT disruption will likely take a few days.

While last night’s train disruption on the North-South East-West Lines was on a larger scale than the 2011 breakdowns, a Committee of Inquiry (COI) is not on the cards for now, he said. 

“While LTA and SMRT engineers have narrowed down the possible causes of the problem, and are in the process of rectifying the faults discovered, it is not yet conclusive, and they would need more time to ascertain the situation definitively,” the LTA said in a statement earlier today.   

As of 8.40am at Jurong East MRT station, trains on the EWL were arriving at two to three-minute intervals, while trains on the NSL were arriving at four-minute intervals.

Mr Philip Chan, who started his journey at Yew Tee said his ride was as usual. "Nothing happened, the train was traveling at normal speed," said Mr Chan, who added that he intends to travel to Raffles Place later this morning by MRT.

READ ALSO
COI not necessary; best to focus on finding cause of breakdown: Lui Tuck Yew
A lady who wanted only to be known as Ms Yew, said she got to Jurong East on time despite not catering for additional travel time. "Everything was very smooth and normal," said the 26-year-old who works at Tuas.

Announcements were also made at Jurong East bus interchange to remind commuters that all bus services are free due to train service disruptions. Commuters were also reminded not to tap their EZ link cards on buses.

Meanwhile, a group of volunteers called U Volunteers started an initiative on Facebook this morning to get people to carpool or share taxis with strangers in light of limited train services being restored. The post called for people with cars or those willing to share taxis to state the start and end point of their journeys. 

