Rail operators must minimise service disruptions during morning peak hour


12 Mar 2014



Minimising train disruptions during morning peak hours must be a top priority for both rail operators said Transport Minister Lui Tuck Yew yesterday.

Both rail operators must make it a top priority to minimise train disruptions during the morning peak hour, as they cause great inconvenience to the most number of commuters, Transport Minister Lui Tuck Yew said yesterday. In order to achieve this, the minister suggested that both rail operators, SMRT and SBS Transit, should enhance maintenance works at night and conduct more stringent checks on the condition of trains before launching them into service.



The Transport Minister also added that the decreasing number of trains being pulled out of service is encouraging - but the goal is to bring the withdrawal rate to levels below that of 2008's by the year 2016Regardless, he acknowledged both rail operators have invested more money in maintenance, and are adopting a more predictive approach to detect and prevent problems from occurring.

Mr. Lui made the comments when replying to five MPs who raised the issue of reliability, after a spate of delays hit the rail network this year. Government Parliamentary Committee for Transport Chair, Cedric Foo (Pioneer), said there were 10 incidents in the first three months of this year on various lines. He added, the increased number of train disruptions has further diminished the commuter's confidence in the public transport system.

Mr. Lui said this year's incidents are a crucial reminder that improving reliability is "a lengthy and painstaking journey". Regardless, he acknowledged train withdrawal rates have reduced by at least 25 percent for all rail networks excluding the Downtown Line. 

With more stringent operating performance standards in place since January, rail operators are also now accountable for short delays - even if they do not lead to service disruptions.

Mr. Lui also revealed train frequency will be no longer than five minutes as there will be more trains added this and next year to improve frequency. In addition the Punggol West LRT loop will open in the middle of this year, with more rail lines to open in the future. The transport minister believes with the operation of new lines, current crowdedness on certain stretches of the existing network should improve.