Turn MRT woes into opportunity for yet another S’pore success story

Published July 14, 2015
Updated July 14, 2015


Using London’s underground rail system for five years when I was studying in the city, I feel that it is one of the best in the world, even though it was built in the late 1800s.

Despite the breakdowns, strikes and even inclement weather that bring it to a halt every now and then, it is still the best way to get around the city because it is fully connected, with the buses above ground playing a supporting role — much like our feeder buses — so you can reach practically any part of the city. It was convenient, especially if you had a monthly train-bus ticket, which you could easily purchase.

As a young nation, Singapore still has time to catch up, in terms of connectivity, with the entire island being linked. The breakdowns could be seen as part of the teething problems before the vision is realised — as long as expectations are kept within reason. After all, in other areas, be it security, safety, cleanliness and so on, we still score very highly when compared with mass rapid transit systems anywhere else in the world.

Disruptions will occur from time to time. Inevitably, everything breaks down, especially with wear and tear. This is where the maintenance of the system will have to be exceptional, to keep such occurrences at a minimum.

More personnel will also have to be trained to deal with problems promptly and, in particular, alleviate the anxieties that arise among passengers. All contingencies have to be prepared for as best as possible and, like in civil defence, it is in the training.

But there also have to be alternative means and routes by which to get passengers around — especially to work on time.

Continuing to build on existing services will be crucial. This is not achieved overnight, and requires much thought, planning and expense. But we have the means and the ability to make it happen, and can be proud of yet another achievement in our rather short history. Our story has always been about defying the odds, so I am sure we can do this once again.
