SMRT employee injured during maintenance work at Joo Koon MRT station, leading to delay in EWL train service

UPDATED DEC 14, 2018, 11:24 PM

SINGAPORE - An SMRT employee had his foot crushed while carrying out maintenance work on the MRT tracks near Joo Koon station on the East-West Line early on Wednesday (Dec 12).

While the exact cause of the accident is not known, The Straits Times understands it involved a track tamping vehicle, used to compact the ballast that supports the tracks.

SMRT said the staff member suffered "foot injuries" at about 4.10am near Joo Koon. The Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) was activated. The employee was conscious when taken to the National University Hospital in an ambulance.

The employee is currently in a stable condition and undergoing treatment at the hospital, SMRT added.

The Straits Times understands that the staff member is a man in his 50s.

This is believed to be the most serious injury involving the rail operator since March 2016, when two trainees - Mr Nasrulhudin Najumudin, 25, and Mr Muhammad Asyraf Ahmad Buhari, 24 - were killed by an oncoming train near Pasir Ris station while investigating a possible fault.

The accident delayed the start of train services in both directions between the Gul Circle and Boon Lay stations.


MORE ON THIS TOPIC
SMRT CEO Neo Kian Hong says company takes investigation into workplace accident 'very seriously'
SMRT said after the man was taken to hospital, engineering and operations teams conducted further checks on the track before service between the two stations was able to start at 6.20am.

The train service from Boon Lay to Gul Circle, in the direction of Tuas Link, typically begins at 5.21am on weekdays, and at 5.26am from Gul Circle to Boon Lay, in the direction of Pasir Ris.


SMRT declined further comment on the incident, and would only say: "Workplace safety is a priority for us, and we will be carrying out a full investigation into the accident."

In a Facebook post, National Transport Workers' Union executive secretary Melvin Yong said the union will be assisting the injured worker and his family, and is relieved to know he is currently in stable condition.

"We will be working closely with the company to investigate the cause of the incident, and to review the necessary workplace safety measures," he said.

