SMRT to start asset renewal earlier following disruption


Published July 15, 2015
Updated July 15, 2015

SINGAPORE — As the search continues for the cause of a series of power trips that crippled two MRT lines simultaneously last week, SMRT Trains managing director Lee Ling Wee said the lesson from that unprecedented breakdown is asset renewal has to start before a system reaches its end-of-life stages.

Speaking on the Talking Point “live” show aired on Channel 5 last night (July 14), he said: “A lesson to be learnt from this experience ... is that we have to start renewing our assets before they reach end of life and we have to start it early enough before we hit the zone where the amount of maintenance (needed), defects, goes up.”

He added: “We know that zone, but we need to actually start earlier. Between the operator and the LTA, we need to learn from that.”

His remarks prompted regulator Land Transport Authority’s (LTA) chief executive Chew Men Leong, who was also on the show, to weigh in immediately. Mr Chew said public transport operators know where that “zone” is and it is their responsibility “to kick-start the entire process of the upgrading to make sure the system is in place and in position so it doesn’t get into a situation where the spike comes”.

On the cause of the power trips preceding last Tuesday’s outage of the North-South and East-West lines (NSEWL), Mr Lee suggested that issue of insulation on the third rail is the prime suspect, although he stopped short of pinpointing it as the cause. The third rail provides power to trains and is suspended by brackets that are insulated by ceramic insulators. “The third rail system is ... almost 30 years old, and some of these insulators are ageing, so there’s a possibility that some of it is loose ... and, therefore, may end up with certain leakage of current” that could have led to the trips, he said.

Mr Lee also explained why he made the call of halting operations on the NSEWL that evening, which affected more than 250,000 commuters. As the power trips were not resettable, five trains were stuck between stations, he said. Continuing operations could have meant more trains and commuters facing that predicament and an evacuation of large groups of people on train tracks, he added. “So I guess it’s the lesser of two evils if you have to choose,” said Mr Lee.

Meanwhile, the LTA also gave updates yesterday on the external consultants hired to conduct an independent assessment of the power supply and track-side infrastructure along the NSEWL.

Five experts from Sweden’s Parsons Brinkerhoff and Japan’s Meidensha Corporation are on the team, led by Mr Mats Onner from Parsons and Mr Hiroto Ikeda from Meidensha, LTA said in a press release.

Parsons, which served as a consultant for mechanical services on the NSEWL, has extensive experience in rail transit systems, ranging from conducting feasibility studies on them to providing advice on operations and maintenance. Meidensha is experienced in power-supply systems, and had designed and installed the one on the NSEWL. It is also providing the power supply system for the northern stretch of the Thomson-East Coast Line.

The independent assessment is expected to be completed in August.

As for how much this would cost, an LTA spokesman said: “We will have a better indication of the total project cost when the assessment is completed.”