MRT breakdowns: Refocus, reform, restore and do not fear change



Published October 16, 2017
Updated October 17, 2017

I refer to the article, “How to ease the crowds during major MRT disruptions? Options are limited, experts say” (Oct 9).

Train disruptions are not new to Singaporeans, and most of us have moved on to find ways to cope with the unexpected throughout the years.

While commuters are angry and frustrated to be at the mercy of large-scale disruptions, I believe some of us are aware that SMRT and the stakeholders involved are doing what they can to improve the situation.

We are unhappy because the process takes time and the changes can have far-reaching consequences.

For most of us in urbanised Singapore, the public transport system is a fundamental need. This is especially so since the Government is moving towards having a car-lite society.

READ ALSO
Apology a ‘turning point’ for SMRT, workers’ morale a concern, experts say
Disruptions not only cause inconvenience to commuters, they are also seen as setbacks to the country’s known efficiency, where things run like clockwork for the general public.

Perhaps we, as a nation, should think beyond tweaking the legacy system as it may not be effective anymore.

Instead of constantly venting our frustrations which does not do much to alleviate our pain, maybe we can suggest that the relevant people in charge explore these solutions:

1. Refocus role of SMRT: When people have repetitive oversights, it may be that the processes for checks and balances are not working or cannot be enforced. It is critical to bring the focus back to SMRT’s purpose via a bottom-up approach.

2. Realign processes: Organisations cannot scale up and achieve improvements, when they are exhausted from regular fire-fighting. Please get the house in order first.

3. Restore confidence: An organisation’s reputation is not about branding or communications alone. It is about authentic leadership and ownership during crises.

READ ALSO
SMRT steps up anti-flood checks, overhauls maintenance team structure following NSL tunnel flooding
4. Reform status quo: The management and board should review the strategic changes even after they have been rolled out. Do not fear the change that is needed to gut useless parts. Some examples of action that can be taken — peg the management’s pay or bonus to tangible outcomes accepted by the public; award deserving ground staff members with bonuses that are higher than management’s; schedule focus-group discussions with regular train users to better understand their needs and requirements; and strengthen support from partners during disruptions.

These partners could be operators of rental bikes and private buses, schools, employers, and the authority running park connectors. Related to this point, I agree with the experts that taxis may aggravate congestion during massive MRT disruptions.