SMRT steps up anti-flood checks, overhauls maintenance team structure following NSL tunnel flooding


Published October 16, 2017
Updated October 17, 2017


SINGAPORE — To prevent a repeat of the underground MRT tunnel flooding two weekends ago, rail operator SMRT has put in place several flood protection measures.

All sensors and water pumps will be checked monthly from now on, rather than every three months. Every pump and float switch at tunnel portals will also be changed by the end of the year.

At a media briefing on Monday (Oct 16), SMRT revealed that a faulty float switch caused train services to break down along six stations on the North-South Line over the weekend of October 7 to 8. Transport Minister Khaw Boon Wan also blamed poor maintenance of the anti-flooding system for the disruption.

Float switches activate the pumps when water in the storm water pit reaches a specific level. The malfunction led to water overflowing from the pit during a downpour on Oct 7, entering the tunnel through the rail tracks where trains from Bishan MRT Station go underground towards Braddell MRT Station.

The tunnel portal’s water pumps and float switches at Bishan were last replaced in 2011, while the pump system was last checked in June this year.

READ ALSO
Apology a ‘turning point’ for SMRT, workers’ morale a concern, experts say
SMRT Trains’ chief executive Lee Ling Wee said that the servicing of the pumping system should have been done in September, but it was deferred till Oct 12 because staff members claimed they could not find a time slot for track access.

To guard further against flash floods, SMRT is introducing a remote monitoring system that can send text alerts to employees when there are high water levels.

SMRT will also strengthen its standard operating procedures, and its cooperation and coordination with agencies such as the Singapore Civil Defence Force and national water agency PUB.

At Bishan MRT Station, a new control panel, improved switch design and new radar sensors will be added to monitor water levels in the sump pit.

Immediately after the flooding incident, SMRT checked the pump systems of sump pits at MRT stations from Lavender to Kallang, Kembangan to Bedok, Redhill to Tiong Bahru, and Expo to Changi Airport. All defects found were rectified.

SMRT Trains has also recently restructured its engineering and maintenance teams “for greater accountability and focus”, it said.

READ ALSO
In full: SMRT CEO Desmond Kuek on 'deep-seated cultural issues' behind history of service disruptions
A maintenance and engineering systems group was set up, led by a newly appointed chief maintenance officer, who will oversee all maintenance functions.

SMRT’s chief technology officer will lead the future systems division, which will assess and implement the latest technologies for predictive maintenance.

An integrated building and facilities maintenance division was also created, which will bring together all infrastructure maintenance requirements, such as escalator platform screen doors and lifts.

Mr Lee said: “Since the tunnel flooding incident, our engineering and maintenance staff members have been working intensively round-the-clock on network-wide checks, not just on flood prevention measures in tunnels, but all life support infrastructure such as ventilation and fire prevention measures.”

Apologising to affected commuters, he added that the team at SMRT’s Trains knows “full well that commuters rely on us to deliver better MRT journeys”.