More trunk bus services during rail disruptions


18 Aug 2015


Senior Minister of State for Transport Josephine Teo said during Parliament that trunk bus services will be ramped up during MRT disruptions.

The Straits Times reported that during yesterday's parliamentary sessions, Senior Minister of State for Transport Josephine Teo said that trunk bus services calling at MRT stations hit by major breakdowns will be ramped up to provide alternative travel options for commuters.



Improved contingency plans include additional trunk bus services and bridging busesDepending on the severity and scale of disruptions, buses may also be diverted from other routes with lower demand to ease congestion, she told Parliament yesterday.

These are part of an improved contingency plan recently implemented after the July 7th massive breakdown on the Nouth-South and East-West lines, affecting some 250,000 commuters during peak hour.

Mrs. Teo was responding to a question from Mr. Lim Biow Chuan (Mountbatten) on whether contingency plans to handle major rail breakdowns have been reviewed.

With the improved contingency plans, commuters will have two options - to either use trunk bus services that will be boosted in frequency and capacity, or to use special bridging buses. In major disruptions, a special bus bridging plan to serve those living in major towns may be used. Commuters in the city can travel via alternative MRT lines to key interchange stations, such as Bishan, Paya Lebar and Buona Vista, and transfer to special bridging buses to towns such as Ang Mo Kio, Woodlands, Tampines and Choa Chu Kang. This special bridging plan will also work in the reverse direction, Mrs. Teo noted.

Another consideration would be to extend the operating hours of City Direct Services - buses contracted by the Government carrying commuters directly between their neighbourhoods and the city.

Mr. Cedric Foo (Pioneer) asked if investments could be better made to prevent major rail disruptions, through redundancy or isolating breakdowns to specific rail segments, rather than to invest in a large-scale contingency plan that would involve tapping resources of buses and drivers.

In reply, Mrs. Teo said that, given the ageing rail system, resources have to be concurrently invested in preventive maintenance and improving contingency plans. "If and when an incident were to happen, it is reasonable for commuters to expect that the management of it ought to be up to mark," she said.