North South Line hit by hours-long train service disruption

Published February 23, 2015
Updated February 23, 2015


SINGAPORE — A track fault caused a disruption in train service between Yew Tee and Kranji MRT stations for hours, according to transport operator SMRT today (Feb 23).

At about 3pm, the SMRT tweeted that train service towards Marina Bay was unavailable, and that it was providing a free shuttle service between Choa Chu Kang and Kranji. 

The train operator said on Facebook that the disruption was due a damaged third rail which supplies power to the trains. Just before 6pm, it said engineers were working to recover a train that stalled on the open viaduct between Yew Tee and Kranji stations. "The high risk of lightning due to the thunderstorm over the area is hampering our repair work," SMRT said.

By 7.15pm, SMRT said the stalled train was recovered with the help of another train that hauled it away to Ulu Pandan Depot.

At about 7.30pm, SMRT said train services had resumed.

SMRT later issued a statement saying that passengers on board the stalled train were moved to another train on an adjacent track and transferred to Yew Tee station. 

"Our engineers reached the affected site quickly but were unable to access the track because of lightning in the area," said Managing Director of SMRT Trains Lee Ling Wee.

Repair works were hampered until 5.30pm, two and a half hours after the problem surfaced. Engineers also found several damaged current collector devices - which draw power from the third rail - on the stalled train and removed them.

"We apologise for the inconvenience caused to our commuters. An investigation into the incident has commenced to determine the cause of the damaged third rail," Mr Lee added.

The train service disruption led to massive crowds during rush hour outside Yew Tee station. Two police cars, a police van, two SMRT vans and three Traffic Police motorcycles were on the scene, and officers were seen assisting with crowd control.

SCDF personnel were also sent to Yew Tee station "as a precautionary measure", said SMRT.

SMRT staff said it was running shuttle bus services on loop from Yew Tee to Kranji, and it stopped the bus bridging services half an hour after North South Line train operations were back to normal.

"LONGER THAN USUAL" TRAIN SERVICES: COMMUTERS

Ms Janice Kang, who boarded a shuttle bus at Choa Chu Kang interchange after hearing that train services were disrupted, said there was a "very long queue". She waited for about 30 minutes before boarding one, while the journey to Yew Tee station took about 20 minutes as there was a traffic jam. 

Mr Peter Lim said: "I'm a little disappointed with the train problems and the long queues for the shuttle bus. I waited for about 20 minutes for the shuttle bus and there were several queues. During a train breakdown, I think SMRT's way of organising the queues could be more systematic."

Mr Joel Lim who travelled from Tanjong Pagar to Yew Tee, said he waited for about 20 minutes before he could board a shuttle bus.

"You can see the roads are very crowded and it's even worse over at Chua Chu Kang. It's heavily congested. The whole system is very inefficient if trains keep breaking down," he said.

Mr Lim added that the journey from Tanjong Pagar to Yew Tee normally takes him an hour, but it took him more than one and a half hours today.

Commuters also took to social media to express their views about the service disruption, which comes a day after the Chinese New Year long weekend. 

"#SMRT train service on NSL between Choa Chu Kang, Kranji stations towards Marina Bay - to add on to Post-CNY-holidays-Monday-blues," said Kelvin Peh, @gemfighter, on Twitter

BUS ENTHUSIASTS RESPOND

Amidst the disgruntled commuters, one group stood out. A group of teenagers - all self-professed bus enthusiasts - rushed down to Yew Tee station, bearing signs to help direct the crowds.

Asked why they decided to so, Jesmond Lee, a secondary school student said: "It's our pleasure to help people." CHANNEL NEWSASIA

