Audits, rewards and penalties help to improve operations on the ground

Published October 23, 2017
Updated October 23, 2017


I agreed with the comments made by Ms Yvonne Wong Oi Lin in her letter, “MRT breakdowns: Refocus, reform, restore and do not fear change” (Oct 16) and would like to made proposals from the operations angle.

When I worked in a bank, all units had to face several audits annually, conducted by internal audit department and external audit firm.

Sometimes, the Monetary Authority of Singapore would conduct an audit with its own team.

These help us to always bear in mind the standard operating procedures and compliance requirements.

Having audits does not mean that all problems will disappear. However, they will help us to identify at least some issues and fix them before they become a problem.

When the number of problems are reduced, the image of the company will improve and the morale of employees will pick up because they know that they are doing well.

Audit results will also give the management a rough idea of how the units are performing and whether appropriate actions should be taken. For example, if the internal or external auditors give a poor grading to a certain unit, it is a signal to the management to follow up on this.

An audit report allows the management to identify outstanding and/or poor performance of workers as well, and rewards and penalties may be given.

It is therefore very important that the board of directors and top management implement a clear and detailed system for such rewards and penalties and make it known to all employees.

Reward those with outstanding performances or who provide good ideas to improve work procedures or rectify weaknesses.

Punish those who do not follow procedures, comply with rules and regulations, or perform up to standard.

The argument that employees are “already rewarded by salary to perform well and no additional incentive is needed” cannot stand. Workers are paid to work within a structure and any deviation should be penalised.

Having said that, manuals on operating procedures that might be written years ago will probably have to be reviewed to cope with changing environments and technologies. So incentive should be given to encourage staff members to pinpoint weaknesses or flaws, or highlight that certain procedures might be inappropriate.

Students are supposed to study and work hard in schools. We give out prizes to best performers to let them know that we recognise their diligence. By the same token, it is necessary to show workers that their contributions are treasured and not overlooked.