Downtown Line opening marred by disruption at Bayfront Station

Published December 23, 2013
Updated December 26, 2013



SINGAPORE — Hours after the first stretch of the Downtown Line opened to the public yesterday, a train fault at Bayfront MRT Station disrupted services for about 15 minutes.

“There was a temporary disruption to service at about noon today due to a train fault, but this was quickly resolved and full service resumed not long after,” said Ms Tammy Tan, Senior Vice-President for Corporate Communications at SBS Transit.

Republic Polytechnic student Kevin Tan, 20, said he had boarded the Downtown Line train at Chinatown MRT Station before he heard announcements that there was a train fault and apologising for the delay. About 10 minutes later, passengers on the train were asked to alight as the train could not move.

Mr Tan said some commuters were upset as they were not advised on where to go after exiting the train. “After the (train fault) occurred, we didn’t have any instructions on whether we should wait for another train … That was the only thing I felt quite upset about, there was no follow-up,” he told TODAY.

Yesterday was the start of all-day free travel along the six-station Downtown Line 1 — Chinatown, Telok Ayer, Downtown, Bayfront, Promenade and Bugis stations — until Jan 1 next year.

Last week, SBS Transit said it had rigorously tested its emergency plans, with more than 180 drills, some of which included simulations of scenarios where trains break down.

An open house was also held earlier this month to test how the stations would cope with heavy passenger loads.

According to SBS Transit, close to 9,000 passengers boarded the Downtown Line trains from five stations between 6am and 3pm yesterday. The figure excludes passengers boarding from Promenade MRT Station, which shares fare gates with the Circle Line.

Among the commuters was 36-year-old Wendy Choo, who works at an advertising firm in Chinatown. Intending to take the Downtown Line to get home from work, Ms Choo said she took the opportunity yesterday to familiarise herself with the exits at Chinatown MRT Station.

The new train service, she noted, would save her at least 15 to 20 minutes in travel time since there is usually a traffic jam when she takes a bus home.

Most of the businesses near the two new stations — Telok Ayer and Downtown stations — were optimistic that the Downtown Line would bring them more customers, but at least one store owner was disappointed that the opening yesterday did not bring in the numbers he had expected.

In preparation for more walk-in customers, Mr Tan Boon Chai, 63, owner of Tan Hock Seng Cake Shop, said he and his wife decided to open the shop two hours earlier and prepared 10 per cent more traditional cakes and pastries for sale.

“We are quite disappointed; only a few people exited the station every now and then,” said Mr Tan, whose shop is located directly opposite Telok Ayer MRT Station.

However, Mr Danny Cheang, Operations Manager at Korean Chinese Restaurant along Telok Ayer Street, said he saw a 15 per cent increase in the number of customers yesterday and is hopeful that this will continue.

Other businesses said they were expecting between 5 per cent and 30 per cent increase in sales in the weeks ahead, although they still expect most of their business to come from the weekday office crowd and regulars on weekends.

Mr Pav Khialani, owner of Sarnies Cafe, said of the usual weekend crowd: “Most who do come here already come from the residential areas or they drive in, (so) I’m not sure if the train station will make it any different.”

Likewise, Ms Jeslyn Tan, who owns clothing store Miz Apparels at Marina Bay Link Mall outside the new Downtown MRT Station, also does not expect a lot more walk-in customers despite seeing more people in the mall yesterday. The shop caters to regulars and those working around the area, she said.
