Downtown Line service fully resumes after maintenance vehicle fire causes partial track closure
A staff member was taken to hospital for smoke inhalation.


24 May 2024 02:45PM
(Updated: 24 May 2024 02:56PM)


SINGAPORE: Train service on the Downtown Line has fully resumed after a partial track closure early on Friday (May 24) disrupted the morning commute of some travellers. 

The disruption, which lasted slightly over an hour, was due to a fire on a maintenance works vehicle, rail operator SBS Transit said in a Facebook post. 

ADVERTISEMENT

This caused train service to be "temporarily unavailable" along a portion of the line spanning six stations - between Fort Canning and Mattar - from the start of service until about 7.25am.

The first train departs Mattar Station at about 6am from Mondays to Saturdays while the first train from Fort Canning Station leaves at 6.10am. 

SBS Transit first flagged the disruption in a Facebook post at 5.25am.

LOCOMOTIVE CAUGHT FIRE
Engineering works were being conducted at Mattar Station in the early hours of Friday when a locomotive caught fire during engineering works. 

The Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) attended to the situation and put out the fire, SBS Transit said.

In response to CNA queries, SCDF said it was alerted to the fire at 12.50am at 60 Merpati Road.

ADVERTISEMENT

The fire, which involved the engine compartment of the locomotive, was extinguished using a water jet and two compressed air foam trolleys.

“However, the locomotive could not be moved off the track until heat from its body could be dissipated. As a result, the affected section of the track had to be closed," said SBS Transit. 

SBS Transit added that its engineers were on site to assess the situation and conducted recovery works so that train service at the six stations could resume as soon as possible.

A person was taken to Singapore General Hospital for smoke inhalation, SCDF said, adding that 29 people evacuated from the affected area as a precautionary measure.

The rail operator said that the staff member was taken to the hospital when he felt unwell.

“He is under observation for smoke inhalation and is doing well,” it added.

The cause of the fire is under investigation.

ADVERTISEMENT



DOWNTOWN LINE DELAYS
Free regular bus services and bridging bus services were available between Chinatown Station and Bedok North Station during the disruption.

A shuttle train service also operated between MacPherson Station and Bedok North Station.

“Commuters were encouraged to take alternative MRT lines to get to their destination stations. Throughout this time, MRT service at the other stations on the Downtown Line was unaffected and operated as usual,” SBS Transit said at the time. 

Full operations on the Downtown Line "resumed progressively" from 7.26am.

"As trains are being regulated, some slight delays may be expected. Once again, we are sorry for the inconvenience caused," it said at 7.40am. 

A CNA reader who was at Tampines East station on Friday morning encountered a train delay at about 7.50am.



Photos sent to CNA showed commuters queueing to tap into the station as well as crowding on the train platform. 

“Passengers were bumping against each other and shoving to make room. The ground floor was already completely filled with passengers,” the commuter recounted, adding that there was "barely space" to move after alighting from the escalator. 

CNA has contacted SBS Transit for comment. 

If you would like to send in information, photos or videos about something newsworthy, submit your news tips on CNA Eyewitness or on WhatsApp.

Source: CNA/cm(zl)
Related Topics
MRT fire public transport transport Singapore Civil Defence Force


Also worth reading

Missing Chinese TikToker’s dismembered body reportedly found outside Bangkok, Thai police say suspect has fled country

Man snatched phone from ex-girlfriend after seeing her with another man, gets fine

Woman found dead after python swallows her in Indonesia

Bus runs over construction worker on Anson Road; driver suspended
Recommended by
Elevating customer experiences through artificial intelligence
Elevating customer experiences through artificial intelligence
Singapore custom PC brand, Dreamcore combats rising costs with Airwallex
Singapore custom PC brand, Dreamcore combats rising costs with Airwallex
Airwallex Singapore
Free data roaming with our SIM Only plans.
Free data roaming with our SIM Only plans.
StarHub
The 1st personal accident plan covering multi-stage Dementia
The 1st personal accident plan covering multi-stage Dementia
AIA Singapore
ADVERTISEMENT

