Rise in workplace injuries in bus and rail operations; many preventable, says Amy Khor


UPDATED NOV 25, 2023, 11:06 AM

SINGAPORE - There were 69 cases of workplace injuries in bus and rail operations in the first nine months of 2023, up 15 per cent from 60 such cases in the same period last year.

Sharing these figures at a rail safety symposium organised by SBS Transit on Nov 24, Senior Minister of State for Transport Amy Khor said the increase is a concern as many of the incidents were preventable.

For instance, major injuries from machinery accidents due to a lack of machine guarding or not using suitable tools could be avoided if the necessary safety precautions were taken, she said.

Dr Khor said a “robust workplace safety culture” has to be inculcated, where all public transport workers prioritise safety and are empowered to improve work processes and call out risks or hazards.

She lauded SBS Transit’s efforts in coming up with a comprehensive workplace safety plan, and noted that the transport operator has established rigorous safety protocols and encouraged workers to take charge of their own safety.

Dr Khor cited how SBS Transit proactively developed a customised platform to reduce the risk of falls for workers who maintain train doors, after its workers spotted a potential fall hazard.

SBS Transit has also used technology to improve safety for its workers and for commuters, she said.


At the forum, SBS Transit showcased several of its initiatives, including a virtual reality (VR) railway safety trainer introduced in October 2023 that simulates 20 real-life track scenarios and trains workers to respond to hazards.

Designed to get around the operational constraints that limit trainees’ access to the tracks to just off-service hours, the VR railway safety trainer allows users to practise at any time of the day without needing to be supervised by a trainer, said training specialist Renzo Chua at SBS Transit’s Rail Training Institute.

Equipped with visual tracking capabilities and voice recognition functions, the trainer can accurately monitor users’ ability to scan for hazards around them, and allows them to practise communicating their instructions audibly for various scenarios.

Mr Chua, 51, said training is a lot more effective with the VR trainer, as users can familiarise themselves with different tasks and review their performance in each session via a results log. This is presented as a video playthrough from a third-person perspective, allowing users to study the mistakes they have made.


The virtual reality railway safety trainer inculcates safety awareness among workers through the use of immersive and interactive scenarios. ST PHOTO: AZMI ATHNI
SBS Transit hopes to continuously improve the VR trainer by adding more relevant training scenarios.

SBS Transit chief executive Jeffrey Sim said that besides training new workers, the trainer will be used to refresh existing workers’ skills, which will enhance productivity as a whole.

Another safety initiative is the smart driver’s assistant, which is meant to reduce the likelihood of human error.

Fitted with front and rear-facing cameras, this device can simultaneously monitor trackside conditions, the driver’s attentiveness, as well as the train’s speed. It is currently being trialled on trains running on the Downtown Line.

SBS Transit has also deployed robotic dogs to assist its technicians with daily maintenance work and reduce their risk of injuries.


SBS Transit has also deployed robotic dogs to assist its technicians with daily maintenance work and reduce their risk of injuries. ST PHOTO: AZMI ATHNI
These robots are used to conduct visual inspections, and will flag any areas of concern that require further inspections by technicians.

SBS Transit had also previously announced its own track intrusion detection system which utilises video analytic technologies for both LRT train tracks and platforms. Besides detecting foreign objects on the tracks, the system can also spot abandoned bags, wheelchairs, and loitering passengers on the LRT station platforms.

Upon detection, an alert will be sent out to staff in the control centre, allowing them to respond immediately to any safety threat.

On building a strong safety culture, Mr Sim said: “Safety is not a destination, but a never-ending journey. (We) strive to do better, and not lapse in complacency but learn from others.”

Clarification note: An earlier version of this article stated that there were 60 cases of workplace injuries in bus and rail operations in the whole of 2022. MOT clarified that there were 60 such cases from January to September 2022.