Railway disruption management challenges
and possible solution directions



Accepted: 27 February 2017 / Published online: 17 March 2017
 The Author(s) 2017. This article is an open access publication
Abstract This paper investigates the challenges of railway traffic controllers in
dealing with big disruptions and the kind of support tools that could help to improve
their task in terms of performance, lead time and workload. The disruption handling
process can be partitioned into three phases resembling a bathtub. For each phase
the essential decision making process has been identified. Currently, the support to
rail traffic controllers in case of severe disruptions is limited to predefined contingency
plans that are not always feasible or applicable. In the literature, models and
algorithms have been identified that could be used in the different parts of the three
phases of the disruption handling process. This paper investigates the processes of
disruption management in practice and the challenges that traffic controllers are
facing during a disruption. The literature of models applicable to disruption management
is reviewed and classified based on the three phases of the traffic state
during disruptions. Finally, a rescheduling optimization model is applied to a case of
complete blockage on a corridor of the Dutch railway network. The case study
shows how a microscopic model could support the traffic controllers by providing
real-time solutions for different phases of a disruption.







In this paper the processes of disruption management and its relevant challenges
were investigated, and the limitations of the current static contingency plans were
discussed. The disruption models and algorithms in the literature were reviewed and
classified based on the three phases of disruption. The literature study revealed that
rerouting and rescheduling services during the transition phases are not sufficiently
investigated. It was also concluded that limited microscopic models have been
developed to deal with disrupted services. In the search for microscopic approaches,
some relevant rescheduling models for small delays were reviewed. To illustrate the
applicability of such methods for the three phases of disruption, a microscopic
rescheduling model has been applied on a Dutch railway corridor. Since the
microscopic rescheduling model was developed for traffic management of smaller
delays and does not include the option of cancelling and short-turning train services,
some assumptions were considered before applying the model to a disruption case.
Two cases of disruptions were defined with different start times of a full blockage. It
is concluded that depending on the disruption period, some services might need to
be cancelled and different choices of short-turnings can be achieved. The results
illustrated the support provided by a microscopic rescheduling model to traffic
controllers for each phase of a disruption. Currently there is no reference in the
literature and no support for the traffic controllers to decide which service is better
to be cancelled and which choice of short-turnings results in the least total delay.
The extension of a microscopic rescheduling model with cancellation and shortturning
decisions will be a next research direction. Moreover, it is also interesting to
investigate the possibility of short-turning the services in other stations.