Commuters, operators have role to play in improving rail system

Published April 27, 2013
Updated April 29, 2013


Darryl Goh: A world-class transport system depends on the commuters, too. Just look at the Taiwanese; they are very considerate in the way they behave on trains. They queue up in an orderly way at train platforms. When you enter the train, no one blocks the entrance, and everyone is quiet and aware of their surroundings at the same time — they do not blast music from their phones and keep to their personal space. I feel calm and happy when I’m on the trains there and that is the experience I hope I can get when I’m on Singapore trains.

Fiza Johari: Commuters have something to learn. When people are trying to get off at stations like Dhoby Ghaut, why don’t they make sufficient room? We should file in a single line, don’t crowd the door areas and once you get on board, don’t dawdle — quickly go move into the middle of the train instead of the other side of the door.

Mark Chong: The behaviour of people is also something that is generated by the number of people coming into Singapore. People feel more combative and more competitive and that has given rise to more aggressive behaviour. But I think, over time, with some education and encouragement to people who move here to fit in, hopefully we will have a more civilised system and people will be more willing to give way to others.

Leonard Low: Infrastructure and policies take time and money, but kindness and consideration can be done now and it doesn’t cost anything.

Alexander Erath: (For express trains) you would need to have new infrastructure so that the faster trains can overtake and not get stuck behind the other trains, so that is a major investment. On the other hand, if you compare Singapore with other cities in the world, you have at least a direct train without (having to change trains).

Mark: Parallel tracks are very expensive, especially for underground lines … The spoke and hub system here effectively concentrates a lot of commuters in one point, which is the hub. I think as we expand our system and coverage, this will spread out the concentration and ease the problem of congestion somewhat.

Winston Chay: I think such expenses have to be expended in some way. If you look at metropolitan countries … like London, the rail network is very extensive. Even if we “over-invest” right now, eventually we will use the infrastructure. I don’t see why we should not go in that direction.

Alexander: Speed, reliability and frequency are very important ... if we take these as the attributes (of a world-class rail system) then maybe Hong Kong is the best — they have trains running every 80 seconds on the main lines.

What we need to do is set the right incentives for the operators to run the trains on time and in a reliable matter (such as by having the authorities collect revenue first and then paying it back to operators, subject to certain conditions). For an operator, it would make sense to cut down on maintenance in the short term to have higher profits, so the Government needs to intervene.

Siow Keng Cheng: I think the crux of the issue is training and maintaining a crew of competent and experienced engineers and technicians. If you don’t have these people, the equipment is going to fail, and these are not simple equipment. I think breakdowns and so on are the result of this basic problem (of not having a competent maintenance crew).

Mark: With the spate of breakdowns in the system, I think it’s only fair that the commuter expects a fairer deal — until we see a more reliable system, the climate is not really right for any major fare increases.