Downtown Line service disrupted today


Published December 27, 2013
Updated December 29, 2013

SINGAPORE — Train service on the Downtown Line (DTL) was disrupted this evening (Dec 27) at about 9pm before being restored at 10.10pm, said SBS Transit (SBST).

"At about 9pm, there was a power fault affecting the Downtown Line. 50 passengers on one train were detrained at Bayfront Station. Full service resumed at 10.10pm.  We apologise to all commuters for the inconvenience caused," said Ms Tammy Tan, Senior Vice President, corporate communications, SBS Transit.

Based on CCTV footage, the power fault appears to be due to activation of the detrainment door device, said Ms Tan.

"Based on CCTV footage on board our train, it would appear that the power fault which caused the Downtown Line to shut down this evening may be the result of the activation of the detrainment door device," said Ms Tan. "We note that there were some children playing around the detrainment door area. A small girl appears to have accidentally activated the detrainment door device which caused the emergency brakes to be automatically applied. This resulted in a tripping of the power supply to the Line which is a safety feature of the system.

"We are still investigating the incident and apologise to all affected."

The end of the disruption was announced on a Twitter post that the Land Transport Authority (LTA) posted on behalf on SBST. The transport operator said: “DTL service has resumed. Once again, we are sorry for the inconvenience caused.”

The service disruption was originally reported by the LTA, also on Twitter. In the tweet, SBST said that “we are very sorry” and added that bus bridging services were made available during the disruption in service. SBST said the downtime was due to a power fault.

This is the second time the DTL suffered a service downtime in just six days. A train fault at its Bayfront MRT Station disrupted services for about 15 minutes on Dec 22 just hours after the first stretch of the DTL was opened.

These breakdowns come despite SBS Transit previously announcing that more than 180 drills were conducted prior to the opening of the first six stations of the DTL. Some of the drills involved multiple agencies and included simulations of scenarios where trains break down. Shuttle bus service routes were also tested.

SBST also said that trains go through an automated process before they enter service every morning. The process, which lasts about 20 minutes, includes testing of brakes, air-conditioning, lighting and battery systems, while customer service officers also check the trains.